Week3.md, before:

# Week 3

## Weekly Goals

- Build a simple web app
- Follow an effective debugging process for web applications
- Explain the basics of how the web works (e.g. request/response, HTTP, HTML, CSS)
- Explain the MVC pattern

## Plans to achieve week 3 goals:

- Read and work through the exercises based around building web applications & the req/res cycle
- Practice, practice & practice using Sinatra (understand what sessions, how routing works, how to redirect routes, etc.)
- Understand the core concept of Automated Browsers and practice Capybara
- Understand what MVC architecture is, and how it applies to building web applications
- Read relevant documentation/articles/knowldge pills as I go, and try to extract fundamental concepts  
- Use my note-taking app to continue to create a solid knowledge bank, where I can refer to some key information in the future. 


## Evidence

### Pair Programming Project - Battle Game

#### [Battle Game Repo here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/battle)
Completed **Battle** web application, a pokemon-inspired battle game. Players can sign-in and battle each other while switching turns. 

- Technologies Used: Ruby, Sinatra, Rspec, Capybara, HTML
- Skills Learnt:
	- How to build a simple web application
  - Web fundamentals, how POST & GET requests work, the cycle between clients and servers
	- Sinatra, what it stands for and how Sinatra echoes the MVC Architecture (routing, Controllers, Models)
	- Applying OOD to building web apps, especially the SRP and encapsulation
	- TDD using RSpec & Capybara

---

### Weekend Challenge - 


### Auxiliary resources

- Built a Birthday App using Ruby & Sinatra. Users can log in their name & birthday details. If it's their birthday, the next page will greet them with a custom message. Repo [here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/birthday-counter-app)

- Completed a web application (Simple Web Blog) debugging exercise - The exercise emphasizes my understanding of how I approach debugging a program across the stack. Repo [here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/debugging-blog-app).
  

## Daily Goals 
#### Monday - Novemeber 29

**Goal:** Understand how basic servers and HTTP requests work\
**Plan:** Work through challenges set for this week's intro to the web and read as many resources as possible on this topic.\
**Evidence**: Read through the battle challenge and made comprehensive notes on the subject! Also read resources provided on the subject and found it incredibly useful!

---

**Goal**: Understand what **MVC** Pattern is.\
**Plan**: Google and read through online resources!\
**Evidence**: Read through a variety of resources and created a [comprehensive notes](https://www.notion.so/WEEK-3-MVC-Pattern-5cc8921e318744c1b102af257f1e72bf) on the subject! 

---

**Goal**: Understand what *Sinatra* is.\
**Plan #1**: Read & work through the **[count-sinatra](https://github.com/makersacademy/count-sinatra)** example on github\
**Plan  #2**: Work through the Battle pair-programming challenge & read resources along the way.



#### Tuesday - November 30

Goal: Understand how Capybara works.\
**Plan:** Work through the challenges 14 onwards with my pair-partner.\
**Evidence:** Reached step #21!

---

**Goal:** Learn more about HTTP Process Modelling.\
**Plan:** Attend a workshop and discuss the subject with my peers.\
**Evidence:** Diagrammed a scenario using HTTP Process Modelling.

#### Wednesday - December 1

**Goal:** Work through the Technical Learning Resources for [Week 3](https://airtable.com/shrlqxQm2BeUDvFyp/tblokmw6yNUO75ge6)!\
**Plan:** Start from the 1st concept from the Week 3's Airtable and start working!

---

Goal: Work through the [debugging_2](https://github.com/makersacademy/skills-workshops/tree/main/how_the_web_works/debugging_2) exercise\
Plan: Try to solve the challenge and evidence it on my learning-portfolio repo on github,

---

#### Thursday - December 2

**Goal:** To understand how and to actually debug web applications.\
**Plan:** Attend a workshop on the subject and work on the [web blog app](https://github.com/makersacademy/skills-workshops/tree/main/how_the_web_works/debugging_blog_app) example.\
**Evidence:** Fully debugged the app - [Repo link](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/debugging-blog-app). Most importantly understood the principles of routing and the entire MVC architecture. 

---

**Goal:** Better understand the MVC architecture in-practice and how Capybara and Sinatra tools tie in with that.\
**Plan**: Continue working through the battle-app project the entire afternoon! *(currently on step #27 - skinny controllers)*\
**Evidence:** Finished the battle project completely! Added some slight styling to the play.erb rendering. [Repo link](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/battle).

---

#### Friday - December 3

**Goal:** Gain a deeper understanding on building web apps, while utilising Sinatra & Capybara\
**Plan:** Work through a web app practical on skills workshop - [Birthday App](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/main/intro_to_the_web/post_challenges/birthday_app.md).\
**Evidence:**  Completed the Birthday App web app project! [Repo here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/birthday-counter-app)

Commit message:

Added weekend challenge for week 3

Week3.md, after:

# Week 3

## Weekly Goals

- Build a simple web app
- Follow an effective debugging process for web applications
- Explain the basics of how the web works (e.g. request/response, HTTP, HTML, CSS)
- Explain the MVC pattern

## Plans to achieve week 3 goals:

- Read and work through the exercises based around building web applications & the req/res cycle
- Practice, practice & practice using Sinatra (understand what sessions, how routing works, how to redirect routes, etc.)
- Understand the core concept of Automated Browsers and practice Capybara
- Understand what MVC architecture is, and how it applies to building web applications
- Read relevant documentation/articles/knowldge pills as I go, and try to extract fundamental concepts  
- Use my note-taking app to continue to create a solid knowledge bank, where I can refer to some key information in the future. 


## Evidence

### Pair Programming Project - Battle Game

#### [Battle Game Repo here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/battle)
Completed **Battle** web application, a pokemon-inspired battle game. Players can sign-in and battle each other while switching turns. 

- Technologies Used: Ruby, Sinatra, Rspec, Capybara, HTML
- Skills Learnt:
	- How to build a simple web application
  - Web fundamentals, how POST & GET requests work, the cycle between clients and servers
	- Sinatra, what it stands for and how Sinatra echoes the MVC Architecture (routing, Controllers, Models)
	- Applying OOD to building web apps, especially the SRP and encapsulation
	- TDD using RSpec & Capybara

---

### Weekend Project - Rock, Paper, Scissors (RPS) 
#### [Rock, Paper, Scissors Repo here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/rps-challenge)
Completed **RPS**, a classic Rock, Paper, Scissors game, where you play against a computer. 

- Technologies Used: Ruby, RSpec, Sinatra, Capybara, CSS, HTML
- Skills Learnt:
	- Apply the MVC architecture when building a simple web app-based game
	- How `.css` files can be linked to `.erb` files
	- Implement an Automated Browser testing with Capybara and check what it displays to viewport
	- Using Sinatra `sessions` to capture params between routing
	- Apply OOD when building various objects for my Model
	- Understand that when you visit a page you send a GET request, which retrieves any HTML with associated CSS styling that is defined as part of that view.

---


### Auxiliary resources

- Built a Birthday App using Ruby & Sinatra. Users can log in their name & birthday details. If it's their birthday, the next page will greet them with a custom message. Repo [here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/birthday-counter-app)

- Completed a web application (Simple Web Blog) debugging exercise - The exercise emphasizes my understanding of how I approach debugging a program across the stack. Repo [here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/debugging-blog-app).
  

## Daily Goals 
#### Monday - Novemeber 29

**Goal:** Understand how basic servers and HTTP requests work\
**Plan:** Work through challenges set for this week's intro to the web and read as many resources as possible on this topic.\
**Evidence**: Read through the battle challenge and made comprehensive notes on the subject! Also read resources provided on the subject and found it incredibly useful!

---

**Goal**: Understand what **MVC** Pattern is.\
**Plan**: Google and read through online resources!\
**Evidence**: Read through a variety of resources and created a [comprehensive notes](https://www.notion.so/WEEK-3-MVC-Pattern-5cc8921e318744c1b102af257f1e72bf) on the subject! 

---

**Goal**: Understand what *Sinatra* is.\
**Plan #1**: Read & work through the **[count-sinatra](https://github.com/makersacademy/count-sinatra)** example on github\
**Plan  #2**: Work through the Battle pair-programming challenge & read resources along the way.



#### Tuesday - November 30

Goal: Understand how Capybara works.\
**Plan:** Work through the challenges 14 onwards with my pair-partner.\
**Evidence:** Reached step #21!

---

**Goal:** Learn more about HTTP Process Modelling.\
**Plan:** Attend a workshop and discuss the subject with my peers.\
**Evidence:** Diagrammed a scenario using HTTP Process Modelling.

#### Wednesday - December 1

**Goal:** Work through the Technical Learning Resources for [Week 3](https://airtable.com/shrlqxQm2BeUDvFyp/tblokmw6yNUO75ge6)!\
**Plan:** Start from the 1st concept from the Week 3's Airtable and start working!

---

Goal: Work through the [debugging_2](https://github.com/makersacademy/skills-workshops/tree/main/how_the_web_works/debugging_2) exercise\
Plan: Try to solve the challenge and evidence it on my learning-portfolio repo on github,

---

#### Thursday - December 2

**Goal:** To understand how and to actually debug web applications.\
**Plan:** Attend a workshop on the subject and work on the [web blog app](https://github.com/makersacademy/skills-workshops/tree/main/how_the_web_works/debugging_blog_app) example.\
**Evidence:** Fully debugged the app - [Repo link](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/debugging-blog-app). Most importantly understood the principles of routing and the entire MVC architecture. 

---

**Goal:** Better understand the MVC architecture in-practice and how Capybara and Sinatra tools tie in with that.\
**Plan**: Continue working through the battle-app project the entire afternoon! *(currently on step #27 - skinny controllers)*\
**Evidence:** Finished the battle project completely! Added some slight styling to the play.erb rendering. [Repo link](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/battle).

---

#### Friday - December 3

**Goal:** Gain a deeper understanding on building web apps, while utilising Sinatra & Capybara\
**Plan:** Work through a web app practical on skills workshop - [Birthday App](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/main/intro_to_the_web/post_challenges/birthday_app.md).\
**Evidence:**  Completed the Birthday App web app project! [Repo here](https://github.com/giorgigutsaevi/birthday-counter-app)
